$Id$

This file attempts to explain some of the oddities of the xterm Debian
source package by describing the files and directories not usually found in
a (debhelperized) source package.

This package uses quilt to manage patches. A basic description of how to use
this is below.

Interesting targets supported by the debian/rules file include:
        debian/rules setup        Unpacks and patches the source.
        debian/rules patch-audit  Unpacks and patches the source, and
                                  verifies that there are no offsets or
                                  fuzz in the patches.  If you are
                                  contributing a patch, please verify that
                                  this target works before submitting it;
                                  it can save the package maintainers a
                                  considerable amount of time.
        debian/rules clean        Unpatches the source and removes stampdir,
                                  build-tree, and various patch-related items
        debian/rules patch        Patches the source with all patches
        debian/rules unpatch      Unpatches the source with all patches
        debian/rules prepare      Sets up the directory so you can begin
                                  editing patches. VERY IMPORTANT.

Editing and creating patches:
  The first thing you need to do is become familiar with the basics of quilt.
  It comes with a pdf tutorial in /usr/share/doc/quilt as well as an excellent
  manpage.

  To start, you should be in the top level directory, containing the debian
  directory and the xc directory. First, run debian/rules prepare. This will
  set up the proper symlinks so that quilt can find the patches it needs to
  apply. Once this is done, you will see a symlink named "patches" that will
  point to debian/patches. This is because quilt expects the patches directory
  to be located at the top level by default. It will set up a ".pc" link as
  well, which quilt uses internally to store info (this is why you'll want to
  use debian/rules clean to clean up, rather than just rm -rf'ing what you see,
  the hidden .pc is easy to forget). It will also create a stampdir that is
  used to store stamps so debian/rules knows what its done, as well as logs.

  Now that the directory is set up, you're going to want to do your thing.
  Let's start with editing a patch. You'll want to run "quilt push
  yourpatchname.diff". You're going to want to make your edits now. If you're
  editing a file that wasn't previously included in the patch, be sure to let
  quilt know you're doing it by using "quilt add" or "quilt edit". If you're
  not sure if you need this, you can run "quilt files" to see if your file is
  already in there, or "quilt patches filename" to see if the current patch
  edits the specified file. Once you're done editing, run "quilt refresh" to
  update your patch. All documentation in the patch header will be retained by
  quilt automatically. If you have made a serious edit, you may want to
  document it in the header of the patch.

  Alternately, you could be creating a new patch. As above, you'll want to set
  up the tree by running debian/rules prepare. You need to decide where your
  patch belongs according to the number series specified below. Once you do
  this, run "quilt push patch-before-yours" specifying the patch that will be
  the last one applied before your new patch. Then run "quilt new patchname"
  using the name of the patch (including the appropriate number). Make your
  edits to the files. As described above, you'll want to be sure quilt knows
  which files you are editing. When you are finished, run "quilt refresh -u -p 
  0". This will create a unified diff patch with a strip number of 0. You
  should then go in to the patches directory and document your patch.

  You may have a patch that you stole from some other source that you just want
  to apply and you don't want to deal with adding files by hand. You can use
  "quilt import -n internal-patch-name file-name" where the internal-patch-name
  is what you want to call your patch. You'll want to push the patch before
  yours, as described above, before doing the import, in order to make sure it
  applies in the right sequence.

  Once you're all done with patch work, you'll want to run debian/rules clean
  to get rid of the things that had to be set up.

patches:
  Directory containing patches applied in ASCIIbetical order.
  numeric prefix indicates disposition of patch
  000     patches FROM upstream

  001-899 patches that should be sent upstream

	001-099		general-purpose patches
	100-199		architecture-specific patches
	800-899		OS flavour patches

   900-999 patches that should not be sent upstream

	900-998		Debian-specific behavior and enhancements
	999		experimental or debugging patches (should not
			generally be present in a production release)

local:
  This contains Debian-specific programs and documentation that we include
  in our xterm binary packages; for instance, our UTF-8 wrapper.

vim:set ai et sw=2 sts=2 tw=80:
